Macro extensions (#29)
ome/omero-guide-fiji: docs/threshold_scripting_macro_language.rst

Segment OMERO data using the Scripting editor in Fiji using ImageJ Macro language
=================================================================================

Description
-----------

The following workflows should work in

> Fiji, after these have been correctly set up with the OMERO plugin for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fiji, after it has been correctly set up with the OMERO plugin for
```

applying threshold, analyzing particles and saving ROIs back in
OMERO i.e. we reproduce in a script the manual steps recorded.
Further, it will create a CSV and OMERO.table to be attached to
that Dataset in OMERO.

#. In your browser, go to the server address provided.

#. Log in using the credentials provided.

#. Make sure you are selecting your own data. Select the Dataset **A-Fiji-dataset**.

#. Launch Fiji.

#. Go to *File > New > Script...*.

#. A dialog pops up. In the *Language* menu, select *ImageJ macro* if not already selected.

#. Copy, into the text script editor of Fiji, :download:`analyse_dataset_save_rois_and_summary_table.ijm <../scripts/analyse_dataset_save_rois_and_summary_table.ijm>`.

#. You will be asked to enter your login credentials when you run the script.

#. Click *Run*.

#. Return to OMERO.web and open an Image from this Dataset in OMERO.iviewer.

#. Click the *ROIs* tab to see the added ROIs. Note that the ROIs have been assigned a Channel index to indicate which Channel they were derived from.

#. In the *Settings* tab, turning channels on/off will also show/hide
   ROIs assigned to those channels.

> #. Open the image in OMERO.figure for a quick publication by going to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    Info tab in iviewer and clicking on OMERO.figure in the Open with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    line.\ |image1|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #. A script was used previously to run on the whole **idr0021** Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    and produce the resulting CSV file. We can now download this file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    from OMERO and open it in Microsoft Excel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #. In Excel, select the Dataset column and the column bounding_box and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    then click on *Insert > X Y Scatter > Scatter*\ |image2|\.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    Depending on the version of Excel you are using, this option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    might not be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    |image3|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 17. This will create a scatter plot. Right-click into the Chart now and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     select *Change chart type > Statistical > Box and Whisker*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
